---
layout: doc_page
---
<!--
    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.
-->
# Establish the Apache DataSketches Project

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best interests of
the Foundation and consistent with the Foundation's purpose to establish
a Project Management Committee charged with the creation and maintenance
of open-source software, for distribution at no charge to the public,
related to an open source, high-performance library of
streaming algorithms commonly called "sketches" in the data sciences.
Sketches are small, stateful programs that process massive data as a
stream and can provide approximate answers, with mathematical
guarantees, to computationally difficult queries orders-of-magnitude
faster than traditional, exact methods.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management Committee
(PMC), to be known as the "Apache DataSketches Project", be and hereby
is established pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Apache DataSketches Project be and hereby is
responsible for the creation and maintenance of software related to an
open source, high-performance library of streaming algorithms
commonly called "sketches" in the data sciences. Sketches are small,
stateful programs that process massive data as a stream and can provide
approximate answers, with mathematical guarantees, to computationally
difficult queries orders-of-magnitude faster than traditional, exact
methods; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache DataSketches" be
and hereby is created, the person holding such office to serve at the
direction of the Board of Directors as the chair of the Apache
DataSketches Project, and to have primary responsibility for management
of the projects within the scope of responsibility of the Apache
DataSketches Project; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and hereby are
appointed to serve as the initial members of the Apache DataSketches
Project:

 * Alexander Saydakov <alsay@apache.org>
 * Dave Fisher        <wave@apache.org>
 * Edo Liberty        <edo@apache.org>
 * Eshcar Hillel      <eshcar@apache.org>
 * Evans Ye           <evansye@apache.org>
 * Furkan Kamaci      <kamaci@apache.org>
 * Jon Malkin         <jmalkin@apache.org>
 * Justin Thaler      <jthaler@apache.org>
 * Kenneth Knowles    <kenn@apache.org>
 * Lee Rhodes         <leerho@apache.org>
 * Liang Chen         <chenliang613@apache.org>
 * Roman Leventov     <leventov@apache.org>

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Lee Rhodes be appointed to
the office of Vice President, Apache DataSketches, to serve in
accordance with and subject to the direction of the Board of Directors
and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death, resignation, retirement,
removal or disqualification, or until a successor is appointed; and be
it further

RESOLVED, that the Apache DataSketches Project be and hereby is tasked
with the migration and rationalization of the Apache Incubator
DataSketches podling; and be it further

RESOLVED, that all responsibilities pertaining to the Apache Incubator
DataSketches podling encumbered upon the Apache Incubator PMC are
hereafter discharged.